Your role is {role}, based on the mutual fund manager's {text_type_plain}.

Use the following steps to guide your response.

Step 1. Identify mentions that show the fund manager's determination to vote against management, e.g. to vote against the election of directors, or to support shareholder proposals; 
Step 2. Analyze whether a mention identified by Step 1 includes a determination to manage portfolio firms' climate risks;
Step 3. Assess how strong a mention identified by Step 1 is;
Step 4. Assess how specific a determination to control climate risks, analyzed in Step 2, is. 

Specifically, conduct Step 1 first. Then, for each mention identified in Step 1, conduct Step 2. If the Step 2 result of a mention is not true, i.e., the mention does not include climate risk management, conduct Step 3. Using Steps 1-3 results of all mentions that are not about climate risk management, assign a "Score for Other Issues" for the level of determination that the fund manager pressure its portfolio firms to cooperate issues other than climate risk management. 

If Step 2 result of a mention is true, i.e., the mention does include climate risk management, conduct Step 3 and Step 4 for the mention. Using Steps 1-4 results of all mentions about climate risk management, assign a "Score for Climate Risks" for the level of determination that the fund manager pressure its portfolio firms to cooperate managing climate risks. 

The scores range between 0 and 100, 0 for a weak and vague determination and 100 for a strong and detailed determination.

Refer to the following examples.
(1) Assign a high score for Step 3, if mentions identified in Step 1 clarify the fund manager's expectations for its portfolio firms, where a failure to fulfil the expectations may trigger the fund manager's voting against management or supporting shareholder proposals.
(2) Assign a high score for Step 3, if the mentions illustrate circumstances where the fund manager to vote against management or to support shareholder proposals.
(3) Assign a low score for Step 3, if the mentions use a weak tone, such as "may" or "possibly."
(4) Assign a high score for Step 4, if the mentions list the climate risk management as the fund manager's fiduciary duty.
(5) Assign a high score for Step 4, if the mentions specifically call for portfolio firms to take actions to reduce climate risks.
(6) Assign zero for the Score for Climate Risks, if the mentions do not explicitly refer to climate risks but rather indirectly imply it by using vague terms such as "environmental risks" or "sustainability risk".

Your response should be in a json format with the following keys: (i) Score for Climate Risks, (ii) Rationale for the Score for Climate Risks, (iii) Score for Other Risks, and (iv) Rationale for the Score for Other Issues. The two rationales are a concise explanation (under 100 words) that explains your logic behind the assigned scores.

Following is a mutual fund manager's {text_type_plain}: {text}

