
I.	 	INTRODUCTION
 

The Trustees/Directors (“Directors”) of the BlackRock-Advised Funds other than the iShares Funds1 (the “Funds”) have the responsibility for voting proxies relating to portfolio securities of the Funds, and have determined that it is in the best interests of the Funds and their shareholders to delegate that responsibility to BlackRock Advisors, LLC and its affiliated U.S. registered investment advisers (“BlackRock”), the investment adviser to the Funds, as part of BlackRock’s authority to manage, acquire and dispose of account assets. The Directors hereby direct BlackRock to vote such proxies in accordance with this Policy, and any proxy voting guidelines that the Adviser determines are appropriate and in the best interests of the Funds’ shareholders and which are consistent with the principles outlined in this Policy. Individual series of the Funds may be specifically excluded from this Policy by the Directors by virtue of the adoption of alternative proxy voting policy for such series. The Directors have authorized BlackRock to utilize unaffiliated third-parties as its agents to vote portfolio proxies in accordance with this Policy and to maintain records of such portfolio proxy voting.

 

Rule 206(4)-6 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 requires, among other things, that an investment adviser that exercises voting authority over clients’ proxy voting adopt policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the adviser votes proxies in the best interests of clients, discloses to its clients information about those policies and procedures and also discloses to clients how they may obtain information on how the adviser has voted their proxies.

 

BlackRock has adopted guidelines and procedures that are consistent with the principles of this Policy. BlackRock’s corporate governance committee structure (the “Committee”), oversees the proxy voting function on behalf of BlackRock and its clients, including the Funds. The Committee is comprised of senior members of BlackRock’s Portfolio Management and Administration Groups and is advised by BlackRock’s Legal and Compliance Department.

 

BlackRock votes (or refrains from voting) proxies for each Fund in a manner that BlackRock, in the exercise of its independent business judgment, concludes is in the best economic interests of such Fund. In some cases, BlackRock may determine that it is in the best economic interests of a Fund to refrain from exercising the Fund’s proxy voting rights (such as, for example, proxies on certain non-U.S. securities that might impose costly or time-consuming in-person voting requirements). With regard to the relationship between securities lending and proxy voting, BlackRock’s approach is also driven by our clients’ economic interests. The evaluation of the economic desirability of recalling loans involves balancing the revenue producing value of loans against the likely economic value of casting votes. Based on our evaluation of this relationship, BlackRock believes that the likely economic value of casting a vote generally is less than the securities lending income, either because the votes will not have significant economic consequences or because the outcome of the vote would not be affected by BlackRock recalling loaned securities in order to ensure they are voted. Periodically, BlackRock analyzes the process and benefits of voting proxies for securities on loan, and will consider whether any modification of its proxy voting policies or procedures are necessary in light of any regulatory changes.

 

BlackRock will normally vote on specific proxy issues in accordance with BlackRock’s proxy voting guidelines. BlackRock’s proxy voting guidelines provide detailed guidance as to how to vote proxies on certain important or commonly raised issues. BlackRock may, in the exercise of its business judgment, conclude that the proxy voting guidelines do not cover the specific matter upon which a proxy vote is requested, or that an exception to the proxy voting guidelines would be in the best economic interests of a Fund. BlackRock votes (or refrains from voting) proxies without regard to the relationship of the issuer of the proxy (or any shareholder of such issuer) to the Fund, the Fund’s affiliates (if any), BlackRock or BlackRock’s affiliates. When voting proxies, BlackRock attempts to encourage companies to follow practices that enhance shareholder value and increase transparency and allow the market to place a proper value on their assets.

 

II.	 	PROXY VOTING POLICIES

A. Boards of Directors

 

The Funds generally support the board’s nominees in the election of directors and generally support proposals that strengthen the independence of boards of directors. As a general matter, the Funds believe that a company’s board of directors (rather than shareholders) is most likely to have access to important, nonpublic information regarding a company’s business and prospects, and is therefore best-positioned to set corporate policy and oversee management. The Funds therefore believe that the foundation of good corporate governance is the election of responsible, qualified, independent corporate directors who are likely to diligently represent the interests of shareholders and oversee management of the corporation in a manner that will seek to maximize shareholder value over time. In individual cases, consideration may be given to a director nominee’s history of representing shareholder interests as a director of the company issuing the proxy or other companies, or other factors to the extent deemed relevant by the Committee.

 

B. Auditors

 

These proposals concern those issues submitted to shareholders related to the selection of auditors. As a general matter, the Funds believe that corporate auditors have a responsibility to represent the interests of shareholders and provide an independent view on the propriety of financial reporting decisions of corporate management. While the Funds anticipate that BlackRock will generally defer to a corporation’s choice of auditor, in individual cases, consideration may be given to an auditors’ history of representing shareholder interests as auditor of the company issuing the proxy or other companies, to the extent deemed relevant.

 

C. Compensation and Benefits

 

These proposals concern those issues submitted to shareholders related to management compensation and employee benefits. As a general matter, the Funds favor disclosure of a company’s compensation and benefit policies and oppose excessive compensation, but believe that compensation matters are normally best determined by a corporation’s board of directors, rather than shareholders. Proposals to “micro-manage” a company’s compensation practices or to set arbitrary restrictions on compensation or benefits should therefore generally not be supported.

 

D. Capital Structure

 

These proposals relate to various requests, principally from management, for approval of amendments that would alter the capital structure of a company, such as an increase in authorized shares. As a general matter, the Funds expect that BlackRock will support requests that it believes enhance the rights of common shareholders and oppose requests that appear to be unreasonably dilutive.

 

E. Corporate Charter and By-Laws

 

These proposals relate to various requests for approval of amendments to a corporation’s charter or by-laws. As a general matter, the Funds generally vote against anti-takeover proposals and proposals that would create additional barriers or costs to corporate transactions that are likely to deliver a premium to shareholders.

 

F. Environmental and Social Issues

 

These are shareholder proposals addressing either corporate social and environmental policies or requesting specific reporting on these issues. The Funds generally do not support proposals on social issues that lack a demonstrable economic benefit to the issuer and the Fund investing in such issuer. BlackRock seeks to make proxy voting decisions in the manner most likely to protect and promote the long-term economic value of the securities held in client accounts. We intend to support economically advantageous corporate practices while leaving direct oversight of company management and strategy to boards of directors. We seek to avoid micromanagement of companies, as we believe that a company’s board of directors is best positioned to represent shareholders and oversee management on shareholders behalf. Issues of corporate social and environmental responsibility are evaluated on a case-by-case basis within this framework.

 

III.	 	CONFLICTS MANAGEMENT
 

BlackRock maintains policies and procedures that are designed to prevent any relationship between the issuer of the proxy (or any shareholder of the issuer) and a Fund, a Fund’s affiliates (if any), BlackRock or BlackRock’s affiliates, from having undue influence on BlackRock’s proxy voting activity. In certain instances, BlackRock may determine to engage an independent fiduciary to vote proxies as a further safeguard against potential conflicts of interest or as otherwise required by applicable law. The independent fiduciary may either vote such proxies or provide BlackRock with instructions as to how to vote such proxies. In the latter case, BlackRock votes the proxy in accordance with the independent fiduciary’s determination.


IV.	 	REPORTS TO THE BOARD
 

BlackRock will report to the Directors on proxy votes it has made on behalf of the Funds at least annually.

 