	
 

 

March 2021

 

Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Principles

 		 	State Street Global Advisors, one of the industry’s largest institutional asset managers, is the investment management arm of State Street Corporation, a leading provider of financial services to institutional investors. As an investment manager, State Street Global Advisors has discretionary proxy voting authority over most of its client accounts, and State Street Global Advisors votes these proxies in the manner that we believe will most likely protect and promote the long-term economic value of client investments, as described in this document.1
 		 	
 

 

1   These Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines are also applicable to SSGA Funds Management, Inc. SSGA Funds Management, Inc. is an SEC-registered investment adviser. SSGA Funds Management, Inc., State Street Global Advisors Trust Company, and other advisory affiliates of State Street make up State Street Global Advisors, the investment management arm of State Street Corporation.

 

 

B-1


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 		 	
 

 

State Street Global Advisors maintains Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines for select markets, including: Australia, continental Europe, Japan, New Zealand, North America (Canada and the US), the UK and Ireland, and emerging markets. International markets not covered by our market-specific guidelines are reviewed and voted in a manner that is consistent with our Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Principles (the “Principles”); however, State Street Global Advisors also endeavors to show sensitivity to local market practices when voting in these various markets. In limited circumstances, certain pooled investment vehicles for which State Street Global Advisors acts as investment manager may, pursuant to their governing documents, utilize proxy voting guidelines developed by third-party advisors.

 

State Street Global Advisors’ Approach to Proxy Voting and Issuer Engagement	 		 	At State Street Global Advisors, we take our fiduciary duties as an asset manager very seriously. We have a dedicated team of corporate governance professionals who help us carry out our duties as a responsible investor. These duties include engaging with companies, developing and enhancing in-house corporate governance guidelines, analyzing corporate governance issues on a case-by-case basis at the company level, and exercising our voting rights. The underlying goal is to maximize shareholder value.
 		 	The Principles may take different perspectives on common governance issues that vary from one market to another. Similarly, engagement activity may take different forms in order to best achieve long-term engagement goals. We believe that proxy voting and engagement with portfolio companies is often the most direct and productive way for shareholders to exercise their ownership rights. This comprehensive toolkit is an integral part of the overall investment process.
 		 	We believe engagement and voting activity have a direct relationship. As a result, the integration of our engagement activities, while leveraging the exercise of our voting rights, provides a meaningful shareholder tool that we believe protects and enhances the long-term economic value of the holdings in our client accounts. We maximize our voting power and engagement by maintaining a centralized proxy voting and active ownership process covering all holdings, regardless of strategy. Despite the vast investment strategies and objectives across State Street Global Advisors, the fiduciary responsibilities of share ownership and voting for which State Street Global Advisors has voting discretion are carried out with a single voice and objective. In those limited circumstances in which State Street Global Advisors acts as investment manager to a pooled investment vehicle that, pursuant to its governing documents, utilizes guidelines developed by a third-party advisor, the proxy votes implemented with respect to such a fund may differ from and be contrary to those votes implemented for other portfolios managed by State Street Global Advisors pursuant to its proprietary proxy voting guidelines. With respect to such funds utilizing third-party guidelines, the terms of the applicable third-party guidelines shall apply in place of the Principles described herein.
 		 	The Principles support governance structures that we believe add to, or maximize, shareholder value for the companies held in our clients’ portfolios. We conduct issuer specific engagements with companies to discuss our principles, including sustainability-related risks. In addition, we encourage issuers to find ways to increase the amount of direct communication board members have with shareholders. Direct communication with executive board members and independent non-executive directors is critical to helping companies understand shareholder concerns. Conversely, we conduct collaborative engagement activities with multiple shareholders and communicate with company representatives about common concerns where appropriate.
 

B-2


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

In conducting our engagements, we also evaluate the various factors that influence the corporate governance framework of a country, including the macroeconomic conditions and broader political system, the quality of regulatory oversight, the enforcement of property and shareholder rights, and the independence of the judiciary. We understand that regulatory requirements and investor expectations relating to governance practices and engagement activities differ from country to country. As a result, we engage with issuers, regulators, or a combination of the two depending upon the market. We are also a member of various investor associations that seek to address broader corporate governance-related policy at the country level, as well as issuer-specific concerns at a company level.

 		 	The State Street Global Advisors Asset Stewardship Team may collaborate with members of the Active Fundamental and various other investment teams to engage with companies on corporate governance issues and to address any specific concerns. This facilitates our comprehensive approach to information gathering as it relates to shareholder items that are to be voted upon at upcoming shareholder meetings. We also conduct issuer-specific engagements with companies, covering various corporate governance and sustainability-related topics outside of proxy season.
 

 		 	
The Asset Stewardship Team employs a blend of quantitative and qualitative research, analysis and data in order to support screens that identify issuers where active engagement may be necessary to protect and promote shareholder value. Issuer engagement may also be event driven, focusing on issuer-specific corporate governance, sustainability concerns, or more broad industry-related trends. We also consider the size of our total position of the issuer in question and/or the potential negative governance, performance profile, and circumstance at hand. As a result, we believe issuer engagement can take many forms and be triggered by numerous circumstances. The following approaches represent how we define engagement methods:

 

Active	 		 	We use screening tools designed to capture a mix of company-specific data, including governance and sustainability profiles, to help us focus our voting and engagement activity.
 

 		 	
We will actively seek direct dialogue with the board and management of companies that we have identified through our screening processes. Such engagements may lead to further monitoring to ensure that the company improves its governance or sustainability practices. In these cases, the engagement process represents the most meaningful opportunity for us to protect long-term shareholder value from excessive risk due to poor governance and sustainability practices.

 

Reactive	 		 	Reactive engagement is initiated by the issuers. We routinely discuss specific voting issues and items with the issuer community. Reactive engagement is an opportunity to address not only voting items, but also a wide range of governance and sustainability issues.
 		 	We have established an engagement protocol that further describes our approach to issuer engagement.
 

B-3


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 

Measurement

 		 	
 

 

Assessing the effectiveness of our issuer engagement process is often difficult. In order to limit the subjectivity of effectiveness measurement, we actively seek issuer feedback and monitor the actions issuers take post-engagement in order to identify tangible changes. Thus, we are able to establish indicators to gauge how issuers respond to our concerns and to what degree these responses satisfy our requests. It is also important to note that successful engagement activity can be measured over differing time periods depending upon the relevant facts and circumstances. Engagements can last as briefly as a single meeting or span multiple years.

 		 	Depending upon the issue and whether the engagement activity is reactive, recurring, or active, engagement with issuers can take the form of written communication, conference calls, or in-person meetings. We believe active engagement is best conducted directly with company management or board members. Collaborative engagement, where multiple shareholders communicate with company representatives, can serve as a potential forum for issues that are not identified by us as requiring active engagement. An example of such a forum is a shareholder conference call.
 

 		 	
Proxy Voting Procedure

 

 		 	
 

 

Oversight

 		 	
 

 

The Asset Stewardship Team is responsible for developing and implementing State Street Global Advisors’ proprietary Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines (the “Guidelines”), the implementation of third-party proxy voting guidelines where applicable, case-by-case voting items, issuer engagement activities, and research and analysis of governance-related issues. The implementation of proxy voting guidelines is overseen by the State Street Global Advisors Global Proxy Review Committee (“PRC”), a committee of investment, compliance and legal professionals, who provide guidance on proxy issues, as described in greater detail below. Oversight of the proxy voting process is ultimately the responsibility of the State Street Global Advisors Investment Committee (“IC”). The IC reviews and approves amendments to the Guidelines. The PRC reports to the IC, and may refer certain significant proxy items to that Committee.

 

 		 	
 

Proxy Voting Process	 		 	In order to facilitate our proxy voting process, we retain Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (“ISS”), a firm with expertise in proxy voting and corporate governance. We utilize ISS to: (1) act as our proxy voting agent (providing State Street Global Advisors with vote execution and administration services), (2) assist in applying the Guidelines, (3) provide research and analysis relating to general corporate governance issues and specific proxy items, and (4) provide proxy voting guidelines in limited circumstances.
 		 	The Asset Stewardship Team reviews with ISS its Guidelines and the services that ISS provides to State Street Global Advisors on an annual or case-by-case basis. As part of its role as proxy agent and prior to providing vote execution services, ISS pre-populates on an electronic platform certain preliminary proxy votes in accordance with the proxy voting guidelines identified by State Street Global Advisors. On most routine proxy voting items (e.g., ratification of auditors), ISS will shortly before applicable submission deadlines use an automated process to affect the pre-populated proxy votes. To the extent the Asset Stewardship Team becomes aware of material new information within a reasonable period of time before ISS affects such votes, the Asset Stewardship Team will assess whether the pre-populated votes should be updated.
 

B-4


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	In other cases, the Asset Stewardship Team will evaluate the proxy solicitation to determine how to vote based upon the facts and circumstances, consist with our Principles and accompanying Guidelines.
 		 	In some instances, the Asset Stewardship Team may refer significant issues to the PRC for a determination of the proxy vote. In addition, in determining whether to refer a proxy vote to the PRC, the Asset Stewardship Team will consider whether a material conflict of interest exists between the interests of our client and those of State Street Global Advisors or its affiliates (as explained in greater detail in our Conflict Mitigation Guidelines).
 

 		 	
We vote in all markets where it is feasible; however, we may refrain from voting meetings when power of attorney documentation is required, where voting will have a material impact on our ability to trade the security, where issuer-specific special documentation is required, or where various market or issuer certifications are required. We are unable to vote proxies when certain custodians, used by our clients, do not offer proxy voting in a jurisdiction or when they charge a meeting specific fee in excess of the typical custody service agreement.

 

Conflict of Interest

 

 		 	See our standalone Conflict Mitigation Guidelines.
 

 

Proxy Voting and Engagement Principles

 

 		 	
 

Directors and Boards	 		 	The election of directors is one of the most important fiduciary duties we perform as a shareholder. We believe that well-governed companies can protect and pursue shareholder interests better and withstand the challenges of an uncertain economic environment. As such, we seek to vote director elections in a way that we believe will maximize the long-term value of each portfolio’s holdings.
 		 	Principally, a board acts on behalf of shareholders by protecting their interests and preserving their rights. This concept establishes the standard by which board and director performance is measured. In order to achieve this fundamental principle, the role of the board is to carry out its responsibilities in the best long-term interest of the company and its shareholders. An independent and effective board oversees management, provides guidance on strategic matters, selects the CEO and other senior executives, creates a succession plan for the board and management, provides risk oversight, and assesses the performance of the CEO and management. In contrast, management implements the business and capital allocation strategies and runs the company’s day-to-day operations. As part of our engagement process, we routinely discuss the importance of these responsibilities with the boards of issuers.
 		 	We believe the quality of a board is a measure of director independence, director succession planning, board diversity, evaluations and refreshment, and company governance practices. In voting to elect nominees, we consider many factors. We believe independent directors are crucial to good corporate governance; they help management establish sound corporate governance policies and practices. A sufficiently independent board will effectively monitor management, maintain appropriate governance practices,
 

B-5


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 		 	
and perform oversight functions necessary to protect shareholder interests. We also believe the right mix of skills, independence, diversity, and qualifications among directors provides boards with the knowledge and direct experience to manage risks and operating structures that are often complex and industry-specific.

 

Accounting and Audit-Related Issues	 		 	We believe audit committees are critical and necessary as part of the board’s risk oversight role. The audit committee is responsible for setting out an internal audit function that provides robust audit and internal control systems designed to effectively manage potential and emerging risks to the company’s operations and strategy. We believe audit committees should have independent directors as members, and we will hold the members of the audit committee responsible for overseeing the management of the audit function.
 

 		 	
The disclosure and availability of reliable financial statements in a timely manner is imperative for the investment process. As a result, board oversight of the internal controls and the independence of the audit process are essential if investors are to rely upon financial statements. It is important for the audit committee to appoint external auditors who are independent from management; we expect auditors to provide assurance of a company’s financial condition.

 

Capital Structure, Reorganization and Mergers	 		 	The ability to raise capital is critical for companies to carry out strategy, to grow, and to achieve returns above their cost of capital. The approval of capital raising activities is fundamental to a shareholder’s ability to monitor the amounts of proceeds and to ensure capital is deployed efficiently. Altering the capital structure of a company is a critical decision for boards. When making such a decision, we believe the company should disclose a comprehensive business rationale that is consistent with corporate strategy and not overly dilutive to its shareholders.
 		 	Mergers or reorganization of the structure of a company often involve proposals relating to reincorporation, restructurings, liquidations, and other major changes to the corporation.
 		 	Proposals that are in the best interests of shareholders, demonstrated by enhancing share value or improving the effectiveness of the company’s operations, will be supported. In evaluating mergers and acquisitions, we consider the adequacy of the consideration and the impact of the corporate governance provisions to shareholders. In all cases, we use our discretion in order to maximize shareholder value.
 

 		 	
Occasionally, companies add anti-takeover provisions that reduce the chances of a potential acquirer to make an offer, or to reduce the likelihood of a successful offer. We do not support proposals that reduce shareholders’ rights, entrench management, or reduce the likelihood of shareholders’ right to vote on reasonable offers.

 

Compensation	 		 	We consider it the board’s responsibility to identify the appropriate level of executive compensation. Despite the differences among the types of plans and the awards possible, there is a simple underlying philosophy that guides our analysis of executive compensation: we believe that there should be a direct relationship between executive compensation and company performance over the long term.
 

B-6


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

Shareholders should have the opportunity to assess whether pay structures and levels are aligned with business performance. When assessing remuneration reports, we consider factors such as adequate disclosure of various remuneration elements, absolute and relative pay levels, peer selection and benchmarking, the mix of long-term and short-term incentives, alignment of pay structures with shareholder interests, as well as with corporate strategy and performance. We may oppose remuneration reports where pay seems misaligned with shareholders’ interests. We may also consider executive compensation practices when re-electing members of the remuneration committee.

 

 		 	
We recognize that compensation policies and practices are unique from market to market; often there are significant differences between the level of disclosures, the amount and forms of compensation paid, and the ability of shareholders to approve executive compensation practices. As a result, our ability to assess the appropriateness of executive compensation is often dependent on market practices and laws.

 

Environmental and Social Issues	 		 	As a fiduciary, State Street Global Advisors takes a comprehensive approach to engaging with our portfolio companies about material environmental and social (sustainability) issues. We use our voice and our vote through engagement, proxy voting, and thought leadership in order to communicate with issuers and educate market participants about our perspective on important sustainability topics. Our Asset Stewardship program prioritization process allows us to proactively identify companies for engagement and voting in order to mitigate sustainability risks in our portfolio. Through engagement, we address a broad range of topics that align with our thematic priorities and build long-term relationships with issuers. When voting, we fundamentally consider whether the adoption of a shareholder proposal addressing a material sustainability issue would promote long-term shareholder value in the context of the company’s existing practices and disclosures as well as existing market practice.
 

 		 	
For more information on our approach to environmental and social issues, please see our Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines for Environmental and Social Issues available at ssga.com/about-us/asset-stewardship.html.

 

General/Routine	 		 	Although we do not seek involvement in the day-to-day operations of an organization, we recognize the need for conscientious oversight and input into management decisions that may affect a company’s value. We support proposals that encourage economically advantageous corporate practices and governance, while leaving decisions that are deemed to be routine or constitute ordinary business to management and the board of directors.
 

 		 	
 

Fixed Income Stewardship	 		 	The two elements of our fixed income stewardship program are:
 		 	Proxy Voting:
 		 	While matters that arise for a vote at bondholder meetings vary by jurisdiction, examples of common proxy voting resolutions at bondholder meetings include:
 		 	
•  Approving amendments to debt covenants and/or terms of issuance

 

B-7


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
•  Authorizing procedural matters, such as filing of required documents/other formalities

 		 	
•  Approving debt restructuring plans

 		 	
•  Abstaining from challenging the bankruptcy trustees

 		 	
•  Authorizing repurchase of issued debt security

 		 	
•  Approving the placement of unissued debt securities under the control of directors

 		 	
•  Approving spin-off/absorption proposals

 		 	Given the nature of the items that arise for vote at bondholder meetings, we take a case-by-case approach to voting bondholder resolutions. Where necessary, we will engage with issuers on voting matters prior to arriving at voting decisions. All voting decisions will be made in the best interest of our clients.
 		 	Issuer Engagement:
 

 		 	
We recognize that debt holders have limited leverage with companies on a day-to-day basis. However, we believe that given the size of our holdings in corporate debt, we can meaningfully influence ESG practices of companies through issuer engagement. Our guidelines for engagement with fixed income issuers broadly follow the engagement guidelines for our equity holdings as described above.

 

Securities on Loan	 		 	For funds in which we act as trustee, we may recall securities in instances where we believe that a particular vote will have a material impact on the fund(s). Several factors shape this process. First, we must receive notice of the vote in sufficient time to recall the shares on or before the record date. In many cases, we do not receive timely notice, and we are unable to recall the shares on or before the record date. Second, State Street Global Advisors may exercise its discretion and recall shares if it believes that the benefit of voting shares will outweigh the foregone lending income. This determination requires State Street Global Advisors, with the information available at the time, to form judgments about events or outcomes that are difficult to quantify. Given our expertise and vast experience, we believe that the recall of securities will rarely provide an economic benefit that outweighs the cost of the foregone lending income.
 

 

Reporting

 		 	
 

 

Any client who wishes to receive information on how its proxies were voted should contact its State Street Global Advisors relationship manager.

 

B-8



March 2021

 

Managing Conflicts of Interest Arising From State Street Global Advisors’ Proxy Voting and Engagement Activity

 		 	State Street Corporation has a comprehensive standalone Conflicts of Interest Policy and other policies that address a range of conflicts of interests identified. In addition, State Street Global Advisors, the asset management business of State Street Corporation, maintains a conflicts register that identifies key conflicts and describes systems in place to mitigate the conflicts. This guidancei is designed to act in conjunction with related policies and practices employed by other groups within the organization. Further, they complement those policies and practices by providing specific guidance on managing the conflicts of interests that may arise through State Street Global Advisors’ proxy voting and engagement activities.
 		 	
 

 

 		 	
i  These Managing Conflicts of Interest Arising From State Street Global Advisors’ Proxy Voting and Engagement Activity Guidelines are also applicable to SSGA Funds Management, Inc. SSGA Funds Management, Inc. is an SEC-registered investment adviser. SSGA Funds Management, Inc., State Street Global Advisors Trust Company, and other advisory affiliates of State Street make up State Street Global Advisors, the investment management arm of State Street Corporation.

 

B-10


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 

Managing Conflicts of Interest Related to Proxy Voting

 		 	
 

 

State Street Global Advisors has policies and procedures designed to prevent undue influence on State Street Global Advisors’s voting activities that may arise from relationships between proxy issuers or companies and State Street Corporation, State Street Global Advisors, State Street Global Advisors affiliates, State Street Global Advisors Funds or State Street Global Advisors Fund affiliates.

 		 	Protocols designed to help mitigate potential conflicts of interest include:
 		 	
•   Assigning sole responsibility for the implementation of proxy voting guidelines to members of State Street Global Advisors’s Asset Stewardship team. Members of the Asset Stewardship team may from time to time discuss views on proxy voting matters, company performance, strategy etc. with other State Street Corporation or State Street Global Advisors employees including portfolio managers, senior executives and relationship managers. However, final voting decisions are made solely by the Asset Stewardship team, in a manner that is consistent with the best interests of all clients, taking into account various perspectives on risks and opportunities with a view of maximizing the value of client assets;

 		 	
•   Generally exercising a singular vote decision for each ballot item regardless of our investment strategy;1

 		 	
•   Prohibiting members of State Street Global Advisors’s Asset Stewardship team from disclosing State Street Global Advisors’s voting decision to any individual not affiliated with the proxy voting process prior to the meeting or date of written consent, as the case may be;

 		 	
•   Mandatory disclosure by members of the State Street Global Advisors’s Asset Stewardship team, Global Proxy Review Committee (“PRC”) and Investment Committee (“IC”) of any personal conflict of interest (e.g., familial relationship with company management, serves as a director on the board of a listed company) to the Head of the Asset Stewardship team. Members are required to recuse themselves from any engagement or proxy voting activities related to the conflict;

 		 	
•   In certain instances, client accounts and/or State Street Global Advisors pooled funds, where State Street Global Advisors acts as trustee, may hold shares in State Street Corporation or other State Street Global Advisors affiliated entities, such as mutual funds affiliated with State Street Global Advisors Funds Management, Inc. In general, State Street Global Advisors will outsource any voting decision relating to a shareholder meeting of State Street Corporation or other State Street Global Advisors affiliated entities to independent outside third parties. Delegated third parties exercise vote decisions based upon State Street Global Advisors’s Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines (“Guidelines”); and

 		 	
•   Reporting of overrides of Guidelines, if any, to the PRC on a quarterly basis.

 		 	
 

 

1   State Street Global Advisors believes such an approach is generally in our clients’ best interest as our proxy voting principles are focused on enhancing long term shareholder value and a unified voting approach maximizes our clients’ voice and promotes firm-wide integration and sharing of insights between teams to the benefit of clients. In limited circumstances, certain pooled investment vehicles for which State Street Global Advisors acts as investment manager may, pursuant to their governing documents, utilize proxy voting guidelines developed by third-party advisors.

 

B-11


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

In general, we do not believe matters that fall within proxy voting guidelines utilized by State Street Global Advisors and that are voted consistently with such guidelines present any potential conflicts, since the vote on the matter has effectively been determined without reference to the soliciting entity. However, where matters do not fall within the applicable proxy voting guidelines or where we believe that voting in accordance with such guidelines is unwarranted, we conduct an additional review to determine whether there is a conflict of interest. In circumstances where a conflict has been identified and either: (i) the matter does not fall clearly within the applicable guidelines; or (ii) SSGA determines that voting in accordance with such guidance is not in the best interests of its clients, the Head of the Asset Stewardship team will determine whether a material relationship exists. If so, the matter is referred to the PRC. The PRC then reviews the matter and determines whether a conflict of interest exists, and if so, how to best resolve such conflict. For example, the PRC may (i) determine that the proxy vote does not give rise to a conflict due to the issues presented, (ii) refer the matter to the IC for further evaluation or (iii) retain an independent fiduciary to determine the appropriate vote.

 

B-12


March 2021

 

Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines for Environmental and Social Issues

 

B-14


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 

Overview

 		 	
 

 

Our primary fiduciary obligation to our clients is to maximize the long-term returns of their investments. It is our view that material environmental and social (sustainability) issues can both create risk as well as generate long-term value in our portfolios. This philosophy provides the foundation for our value-based approach to Asset Stewardship.

 		 	We use our voice and our vote through engagement, proxy voting, and thought leadership in order to communicate with issuers and educate market participants about our perspective on important sustainability topics. Our Asset Stewardship program prioritization process allows us to proactively identify companies for engagement and voting in order to mitigate sustainability risks in our portfolio.
 		 	Through engagement, we address a broad range of topics that align with our thematic priorities and build long-term relationships with issuers. Engagements are often multi- year exercises. We share our views of key topics and also seek to understand the disclosure and practices of issuers. We leverage our long-term relationship with companies to effect change. Voting on sustainability issues is mainly driven through shareholder proposals. However, we may take voting action against directors even in the absence of shareholder proposals for unaddressed concerns pertaining to sustainability matters.
 

 		 	
In this document we provide additional transparency into our approach to engagement and voting on sustainability- related matters. In limited circumstances, State Street Global Advisors may act as investment manager to pooled investment vehicles that, pursuant to their governing documents, utilize guidelines developed by a third-party advisor. With respect to such funds utilizing third-party guidelines, the voting practices described in the applicable third-party guidelines will apply in place of the voting practices described herein.

 

Our Approach to Assessing Materiality and Relevance of Sustainability Issues	 		 	While we believe that sustainability-related factors can expose potential investment risks as well as drive long-term value creation, the materiality of specific sustainability issues varies from industry to industry and company by company. With this in mind, we leverage several distinct frameworks as well as additional resources to inform our views on the materiality of a sustainability issue at a given company including:
 		 	
•   The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) Industry Standards

 		 	
•   The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Framework

 		 	
•   Disclosure expectations in a company’s given regulatory environment

 		 	
•   Market expectations for the sector and industry

 		 	
•   Other existing third party frameworks, such as the CDP (formally the Carbon Disclosure Project) or the Global Reporting Initiative

 		 	
•   Our proprietary R-FactorTM 1 score

 		 	
 

 

1   State Street Global Advisors’ proprietary scoring model, which aligns with SASB’s Sustainability Accounting Standards, and measures the performance of a company’s business operations and governance as it relates to financially material ESG factors facing the company’s industry.

 

B-15


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 		 	
 

 

We expect companies to disclose information regarding their approach to identifying material sustainability-related risks and the management policies and practices in place to address such issues. We support efforts by companies to demonstrate the ways in which sustainability is incorporated into operations, business activities, and most importantly, long-term business strategy.

 

Approach to Engagement on Sustainability Issues	 		 	State Street Global Advisors holds around 12,000 listed equities across its global portfolios. The success of our engagement process is due to our ability to prioritize and optimally allocate resources. Our approach is driven by:
 		 	
1.  Proprietary Screens

 		 	
We have developed proprietary in-house sustainability screens to help identify companies for proactive engagement. These screens leverage our proprietary R-FactorTM score to identify sector and industry outliers for engagement and voting on sustainability issues.

 		 	
2.  Thematic Prioritization

 

 		 	
As part of our annual stewardship planning process we identify thematic sustainability priorities that will be addressed during most engagement meetings. We develop our priorities based upon several factors, including client feedback, emerging sustainability trends, developing macroeconomic conditions, and evolving regulations. These engagements not only inform our voting decisions but also allow us to monitor improvement over time and to contribute to our evolving perspectives on priority areas. Insights from these engagements are shared with clients through our publicly available Annual Stewardship Report.

 

Voting on Sustainability Proposals	 		 	Historically, shareholder proposals addressing sustainability-related topics have been most common in the U.S. and Japanese markets. However, we have observed such proposals being filed in additional markets, including Australia, the UK, and continental Europe.
 		 	Agnostic of market, sustainability-related shareholder proposals address diverse topics and typically ask companies to either improve sustainability-related disclosure or enhance their practices. Common topics for sustainability-related shareholder proposals include:
 		 	
•   Climate-related issues

 		 	
•   Sustainable practices

 		 	
•   Gender equity

 		 	
•   Campaign contributions and lobbying

 		 	
•   Labor and human rights

 		 	
•   Animal welfare

 

B-16


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

We take a case-by-case approach to voting on shareholder proposals related to sustainability topics and consider the following when reaching a final vote decision:

 		 	
•   The materiality of the sustainability topic in the proposal to the company’s business and sector (see “Our Approach to Assessing Materiality and Relevance of Sustainability Issues” above)

 		 	
•   The content and intent of the proposal

 		 	
•   Whether the adoption of such a proposal would promote long-term shareholder value in the context of the company’s disclosure and practices

 		 	
•   The level of board involvement in the oversight of the company’s sustainability practices

 		 	
•   Quality of engagement and responsiveness to our feedback

 

 		 	
•   Binding nature of proposal or prescriptiveness of proposal

 

Voting on Sustainability Proposals	 		 	
•   State Street Global Advisors votes For (support for proposal) if the issue is material and the company has poor disclosure and/or practices relative to our expectations.

 		 	
•   State Street Global Advisors votes Abstain (some reservations) if the issue is material and the company’s disclosure and/or practices could be improved relative to our expectations.

 		 	
•   State Street Global Advisors votes Against (no support for proposal) if the issue is non-material and/or the company’s disclosure and/or practices meet our expectations.

 

B-17


March 2021

 		 	North America (United States & Canada)
 		 	Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines
 		 	
State Street Global Advisors’ North America Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines1 outline our expectations of companies listed on stock exchanges in the US and Canada. These Guidelines complement and should be read in conjunction with State Street Global Advisors’ Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Principles, which provide a detailed explanation of our approach to voting and engaging with companies, and State Street Global Advisors’ Conflict Mitigation Guidance.

 

 

1   These Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines are also applicable to SSGA Funds Management, Inc. ” SSGA Funds Management, Inc. is an SEC-registered investment adviser. SSGA Funds Management, Inc., State Street Global Advisors Trust Company, and other advisory affiliates of State Street make up State Street Global Advisors, the investment management arm of State Street Corporation.

 

B-48


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

State Street Global Advisors’ North America Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines address areas, including board structure, director tenure, audit related issues, capital structure, executive compensation, as well as environmental, social, and other governance-related issues of companies listed on stock exchanges in the US and Canada (“North America”).

 		 	When voting and engaging with companies in global markets, we consider market specific nuances in the manner that we believe will most likely protect and promote the long-term economic value of client investments. We expect companies to observe the relevant laws and regulations of their respective markets, as well as country specific best practice guidelines and corporate governance codes. When we feel that a country’s regulatory requirements do not address some of the key philosophical principles that we believe are fundamental to its global voting guidelines, we may hold companies in such markets to our global standards.
 

 		 	
In its analysis and research about corporate governance issues in North America, we expect all companies to act in a transparent manner and to provide detailed disclosure on board profiles, related-party transactions, executive compensation, and other governance issues that impact shareholders’ long-term interests. Further, as a founding member of the Investor Stewardship Group (“ISG”), we proactively monitor companies’ adherence to the Corporate Governance Principles for US listed companies. Consistent with the “comply-or-explain” expectations established by the principles, we encourage companies to proactively disclose their level of compliance with the principles. In instances of non-compliance when companies cannot explain the nuances of their governance structure effectively, either publicly or through engagement, we may vote against the independent board leader.

 

State Street Global Advisors’ Proxy Voting and Engagement Philosophy	 		 	Corporate governance and sustainability issues are an integral part of the investment process. The Asset Stewardship Team consists of investment professionals with expertise in corporate governance and company law, remuneration, accounting, and environmental and social issues. We have established robust corporate governance principles and practices that are backed with extensive analytical expertise to understand the complexities of the corporate governance landscape. We engage with companies to provide insight on the principles and practices that drive our voting decisions. We also conduct proactive engagements to address significant shareholder concerns and environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) issues in a manner consistent with maximizing shareholder value.
 		 	The team works alongside members of State Street Global Advisors’ Active Fundamental and various other investment teams, collaborating on issuer engagements and providing input on company specific fundamentals. We are also a member of various investor associations that seek to address broader corporate governance related policy issues in North America.
 		 	State Street Global Advisors is a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment (“UNPRI”) and is compliant with the US Investor Stewardship Group Principles. We are committed to sustainable investing and are working to further integrate ESG principles into investment and corporate governance practices, where applicable and consistent with our fiduciary duty.
 

B-49


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 

Directors and Boards

 		 	
 

 

Principally, we believe the primary responsibility of the board of directors is to preserve and enhance shareholder value and protect shareholder interests. In order to carry out their primary responsibilities, directors have to undertake activities that range from setting strategy and overseeing executive management to monitoring the risks that arise from a company’s business, including risks related to sustainability issues. Further, good corporate governance necessitates the existence of effective internal controls and risk management systems, which should be governed by the board.

 		 	State Street Global Advisors believes that a well constituted board of directors, with a balance of skills, expertise, and independence, provides the foundations for a well governed company. We view board quality as a measure of director independence, director succession planning, board diversity, evaluations and refreshment, and company governance practices. We vote for the election/re-election of directors on a case-by-case basis after considering various factors, including board quality, general market practice, and availability of information on director skills and expertise. In principle, we believe independent directors are crucial to robust corporate governance and help management establish sound corporate governance policies and practices. A sufficiently independent board will most effectively monitor management and perform oversight functions necessary to protect shareholder interests.
 		 	Director-related proposals include issues submitted to shareholders that deal with the composition of the board or with members of a corporation’s board of directors. In deciding the director nominee to support, we consider numerous factors.
 		 	Director Elections
 		 	Our director election guideline focuses on companies’ governance profile to identify if a company demonstrates appropriate governance practices or if it exhibits negative governance practices. Factors we consider when evaluating governance practices include, but are not limited to the following:
 		 	
•   Shareholder rights

 		 	
•   Board independence

 		 	
•   Board structure

 		 	If a company demonstrates appropriate governance practices, we believe a director should be classified as independent based upon the relevant listing standards or local market practice standards. In such cases, the composition of the key oversight committees of a board should meet the minimum standards of independence. Accordingly, we will vote against a nominee at a company with appropriate governance practices if the director is classified as non-independent under relevant listing standards or local market practice and serves on a key committee of the board (compensation, audit, nominating, or committees required to be fully independent by local market standards).
 

B-50


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

Conversely, if a company demonstrates negative governance practices, State Street Global Advisors believes the classification standards for director independence should be elevated. In such circumstances, we will evaluate all director nominees based upon the following classification standards:

 		 	
•   Is the nominee an employee of or related to an employee of the issuer or its auditor?

 		 	
•   Does the nominee provide professional services to the issuer?

 		 	
•   Has the nominee attended an appropriate number of board meetings?

 		 	
•   Has the nominee received non-board related compensation from the issuer?

 		 	In the US market where companies demonstrate negative governance practices, these stricter standards will apply not only to directors who are a member of a key committee but to all directors on the board as market practice permits. Accordingly, we will vote against a nominee (with the exception of the CEO) where the board has inappropriate governance practices and is considered not independent based on the above independence criteria.
 		 	Additionally, we may withhold votes from directors based on the following:
 		 	
•   Overall average board tenure is excessive. In assessing excessive tenure, we consider factors such as the preponderance of long tenured directors, board refreshment practices, and classified board structures

 		 	
•   Directors attend less than 75% of board meetings without appropriate explanation or providing reason for their failure to meet the attendance threshold

 		 	
•   NEOs of a public company who sit on more than two public company boards*

 		 	
•   Board chairs or lead independent directors who sit on more than three public company boards*

 		 	
•   Director nominees who sit on more than four public company boards*

 		 	
•   Directors of companies that have not been responsive to a shareholder proposal that received a majority shareholder support at the last annual or special meeting

 		 	
•   Consideration can be warranted if management submits the proposal(s) on the ballot as a binding management proposal, recommending shareholders vote for the particular proposal(s)

 		 	
•   Directors of companies have unilaterally adopted/ amended company bylaws that negatively impact our shareholder rights (such as fee-shifting, forum selection, and exclusion service bylaws) without putting such amendments to a shareholder vote

 		 	
•   Compensation committee members where there is a weak relationship between executive pay and performance over a five-year period

 		 	
 

 

*  Service on a mutual fund board is not considered when evaluating directors for excessive commitments.

 

B-51


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
•   Audit committee members if non-audit fees exceed 50% of total fees paid to the auditors

 		 	
•   Directors who appear to have been remiss in their duties

 		 	Further, we expect boards of Russell 3000 and TSX listed companies to have at least one female board member. If a company fails to meet this expectation, SSGA may vote against the Chair of the board’s nominating committee or the board leader in the absence of a nominating committee, if necessary. Additionally, if a company fails to meet this expectation for three consecutive years, SSGA may vote against all incumbent members of the nominating committee.
 		 	In addition, we believe that companies have a responsibility to effectively manage and disclose risks and opportunities related to racial and ethnic diversity. If a company in the S&P 500 does not disclose, at minimum, the gender, racial and ethnic composition of its board, we will vote against the Chair of the nominating committee.
 		 	SSGA may take voting action against board members at companies on the S&P 500 that are laggards based on their R-FactorTM scores* and cannot articulate how they plan to improve their score.
 		 	Director-Related Proposals
 		 	We generally vote for the following director-related proposals:
 		 	
•   Discharge of board members’ duties, in the absence of pending litigation, regulatory investigation, charges of fraud, or other indications of significant concern

 		 	
•   Proposals to restore shareholders’ ability in order to remove directors with or without cause

 		 	
•   Proposals that permit shareholders to elect directors to fill board vacancies

 		 	
•   Shareholder proposals seeking disclosure regarding the company, board, or compensation committee’s use of compensation consultants, such as company name, business relationship(s), and fees paid

 		 	We generally vote against the following director-related proposals:
 		 	
•   Requirements that candidates for directorships own large amounts of stock before being eligible to be elected

 		 	
•   Proposals that relate to the “transaction of other business as properly comes before the meeting,” which extend “blank check” powers to those acting as proxy

 		 	
•   Proposals requiring two candidates per board seat

 		 	Majority Voting
 		 	We will generally support a majority vote standard based on votes cast for the election of directors.
 		 	
 

 

*  Common for non-US issuers; request from the issuer to discharge from liability the directors or auditors with respect to actions taken by them during the previous year.

 

B-52


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

We will generally vote to support amendments to bylaws that would require simple majority of voting shares (i.e. shares cast) to pass or to repeal certain provisions.

 		 	Annual Elections
 		 	We generally support the establishment of annual elections of the board of directors. Consideration is given to the overall level of board independence and the independence of the key committees, as well as the existence of a shareholder rights plan.
 		 	Cumulative Voting
 		 	We do not support cumulative voting structures for the election of directors.
 		 	Separation Chair/CEO
 		 	We analyze proposals for the separation of Chair/CEO on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration numerous factors, including the appointment of and role played by a lead director, a company’s performance, and the overall governance structure of the company.
 		 	However, we may take voting action against the chair or members of the nominating committee at S&P 500 companies that have combined the roles of chair and CEO and have not appointed a lead independent director.
 		 	Proxy Access
 		 	In general, we believe that proxy access is a fundamental right and an accountability mechanism for all long-term shareholders. We will consider proposals relating to proxy access on a case-by-case basis. We will support shareholder proposals that set parameters to empower long-term shareholders while providing management the flexibility to design a process that is appropriate for the company’s circumstances.
 		 	We will review the terms of all other proposals and will support those proposals that have been introduced in the spirit of enhancing shareholder rights.
 		 	Considerations include the following:
 		 	
•   The ownership thresholds and holding duration proposed in the resolution

 		 	
•   The binding nature of the proposal

 		 	
•   The number of directors that shareholders may be able to nominate each year

 		 	
•   Company governance structure

 		 	
•   Shareholder rights

 		 	
•   Board performance

 

B-53


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

Age/Term Limits

 		 	
Generally, we will vote against age and term limits unless the company is found to have poor board refreshment and director succession practices, and has a preponderance of non-executive directors with excessively long tenures serving on the board.

 

 		 	Approve Remuneration of Directors
 		 	Generally, we will support directors’ compensation, provided the amounts are not excessive relative to other issuers in the market or industry. In making our determination, we review whether the compensation is overly dilutive to existing shareholders.
 		 	Indemnification
 		 	Generally, we support proposals to limit directors’ liability and/or expand indemnification and liability protection if he or she has not acted in bad faith, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of his or her office.
 		 	Classified Boards
 		 	We generally support annual elections for the board of directors.
 		 	Confidential Voting
 		 	We will support confidential voting.
 		 	Board Size
 		 	We will support proposals seeking to fix the board size or designate a range for the board size and will vote against proposals that give management the ability to alter the size of the board outside of a specified range without shareholder approval.
 		 	Board Responsiveness
 

 		 	
We may vote against the re-election of members of the compensation committee if we have serious concerns about remuneration practices and if the company has not been responsive to shareholder pressure to review its approach. In addition, if the level of dissent against a management proposal on executive pay is consistently high, and we have determined that a vote against a pay-related proposal is warranted in the third consecutive year, we may vote against the Chair of the compensation committee.

 

Audit-Related Issues	 		 	Ratifying Auditors and Approving Auditor Compensation
 		 	We support the approval of auditors and auditor compensation provided that the issuer has properly disclosed audit and non-audit fees relative to market practice and the audit fees are not deemed excessive. We deem audit fees to be excessive if the non-audit fees for the prior year constituted 50% or more of the total fees paid to the auditor. We will also support the disclosure of auditor and consulting relationships when the same or related entities are conducting both activities and will support the establishment of a selection committee responsible for the final approval of significant management consultant contract awards where existing firms are already acting in an auditing function.
 

B-54


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

In circumstances where “other” fees include fees related to initial public offerings, bankruptcy emergence, and spin-offs, and the company makes public disclosure of the amount and nature of those fees which are determined to be an exception to the standard “non-audit fee” category, then such fees may be excluded from the non-audit fees considered in determining the ratio of non-audit to audit/audit-related fees/tax compliance and preparation for purposes of determining whether non-audit fees are excessive.

 		 	We will support the discharge of auditors and requirements that auditors attend the annual meeting of shareholders.1
 

 		 	
 

Approval of Financial Statements	 		 	The disclosure and availability of reliable financial statements in a timely manner is imperative for the investment process. We expect external auditors to provide assurance of a company’s financial condition. Hence, we will vote against the approval of financial statements if i) they have not been disclosed or audited; ii) the auditor opinion is qualified/ adverse, or the auditor has issued a disclaimer of opinion; or iii) the auditor opinion is not disclosed.
 

 		 	
 

Capital-Related Issues	 		 	Capital structure proposals include requests by management for approval of amendments to the certificate of incorporation that will alter the capital structure of the company.
 		 	The most common request is for an increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock, usually in conjunction with a stock split or dividend. Typically, we support requests that are not unreasonably dilutive or enhance the rights of common shareholders. In considering authorized share proposals, the typical threshold for approval is 100% over current authorized shares. However, the threshold may be increased if the company offers a specific need or purpose (merger, stock splits, growth purposes, etc.). All proposals are evaluated on a case-by-case basis taking into account the company’s specific financial situation.
 		 	Increase in Authorized Common Shares
 		 	In general, we support share increases for general corporate purposes up to 100% of current authorized stock.
 		 	We support increases for specific corporate purposes up to 100% of the specific need plus 50% of current authorized common stock for US and Canadian firms.
 		 	When applying the thresholds, we will also consider the nature of the specific need, such as mergers and acquisitions and stock splits.
 		 	Increase in Authorized Preferred Shares
 		 	We vote on a case-by-case basis on proposals to increase the number of preferred shares.
 		 	Generally, we will vote for the authorization of preferred stock in cases where the company specifies the voting, dividend, conversion, and other rights of such stock and the terms of the preferred stock appear reasonable.
 

B-55


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

We will support proposals to create “declawed” blank check preferred stock (stock that cannot be used as a takeover defense). However, we will vote against proposals to increase the number of blank check preferred stock authorized for issuance when no shares have been issued or reserved for a specific purpose.

 		 	Unequal Voting Rights
 		 	We will not support proposals authorizing the creation of new classes of common stock with superior voting rights and will vote against new classes of preferred stock with unspecified voting, conversion, dividend distribution, and other rights. In addition, we will not support capitalization changes that add “blank check” classes of stock (i.e. classes of stock with undefined voting rights) or classes that dilute the voting interests of existing shareholders.
 		 	However, we will support capitalization changes that eliminate other classes of stock and/ or unequal voting rights.
 

 		 	
 

Mergers and Acquisitions	 		 	Mergers or the reorganization of the structure of a company often involve proposals relating to reincorporation, restructurings, liquidations, and other major changes to the corporation.
 		 	Proposals that are in the best interests of the shareholders, demonstrated by enhancing share value or improving the effectiveness of the company’s operations, will be supported.
 		 	In general, provisions that are not viewed as economically sound or are thought to be destructive to shareholders’ rights are not supported.
 		 	We will generally support transactions that maximize shareholder value. Some of the considerations include the following:
 		 	
•   Offer premium

 		 	
•   Strategic rationale

 		 	
•   Board oversight of the process for the recommended transaction, including, director and/or management conflicts of interest

 		 	
•   Offers made at a premium and where there are no other higher bidders

 		 	
•   Offers in which the secondary market price is substantially lower than the net asset value

 		 	We may vote against a transaction considering the following:
 		 	
•   Offers with potentially damaging consequences for minority shareholders because of illiquid stock, especially in some non-US markets

 		 	
•   Offers where we believe there is a reasonable prospect for an enhanced bid or other bidders

 		 	
•   The current market price of the security exceeds the bid price at the time of voting

 

B-56


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 

Anti–Takeover Issues

 		 	
 

 

Typically, these are proposals relating to requests by management to amend the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to add or to delete a provision that is deemed to have an anti-takeover effect. The majority of these proposals deal with management’s attempt to add some provision that makes a hostile takeover more difficult or will protect incumbent management in the event of a change in control of the company.

 		 	Proposals that reduce shareholders’ rights or have the effect of entrenching incumbent management will not be supported.
 		 	Proposals that enhance the right of shareholders to make their own choices as to the desirability of a merger or other proposal are supported.
 		 	Shareholder Rights Plans
 		 	US We will support mandates requiring shareholder approval of a shareholder rights plans (“poison pill”) and repeals of various anti-takeover related provisions.
 		 	In general, we will vote against the adoption or renewal of a US issuer’s shareholder rights plan (“poison pill”).
 		 	We will vote for an amendment to a shareholder rights plan (“poison pill”) where the terms of the new plans are more favorable to shareholders’ ability to accept unsolicited offers (i.e. if one of the following conditions are met: (i) minimum trigger, flip-in or flip-over of 20%, (ii) maximum term of three years, (iii) no “dead hand,” “slow hand,” “no hand” nor similar feature that limits the ability of a future board to redeem the pill, and (iv) inclusion of a shareholder redemption feature (qualifying offer clause), permitting ten percent of the shares to call a special meeting or seek a written consent to vote on rescinding the pill if the board refuses to redeem the pill 90 days after a qualifying offer is announced).
 		 	Canada We analyze proposals for shareholder approval of a shareholder rights plan (“poison pill”) on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration numerous factors, including but not limited to, whether it conforms to ‘new generation’ rights plans and the scope of the plan.
 		 	Special Meetings
 		 	We will vote for shareholder proposals related to special meetings at companies that do not provide shareholders the right to call for a special meeting in their bylaws if:
 		 	
•   The company also does not allow shareholders to act by written consent

 		 	
•   The company allows shareholders to act by written consent but the ownership threshold for acting by written consent is set above 25% of outstanding shares

 

B-57


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

We will vote for shareholder proposals related to special meetings at companies that give shareholders (with a minimum 10% ownership threshold) the right to call for a special meeting in their bylaws if:

 		 	
•   The current ownership threshold to call for a special meeting is above 25% of outstanding shares

 		 	We will vote for management proposals related to special meetings.
 		 	Written Consent
 		 	We will vote for shareholder proposals on written consent at companies if:
 		 	
•   The company does not have provisions in their bylaws giving shareholders the right to call for a special meeting

 		 	
•   The company allows shareholders the right to call for a special meeting, but the current ownership threshold to call for a special meeting is above 25% of outstanding shares

 		 	
•   The company has a poor governance profile

 		 	We will vote management proposals on written consent on a case-by-case basis.
 		 	Super–Majority
 

 		 	
We will generally vote against amendments to bylaws requiring super-majority shareholder votes to pass or repeal certain provisions. We will vote for the reduction or elimination of super-majority vote requirements, unless management of the issuer was concurrently seeking to or had previously made such a reduction or elimination.

 

Remuneration Issues	 		 	Despite the differences among the types of plans and the awards possible there is a simple underlying philosophy that guides the analysis of all compensation plans; namely, the terms of the plan should be designed to provide an incentive for executives and/or employees to align their interests with those of the shareholders and thus work toward enhancing shareholder value. Plans that benefit participants only when the shareholders also benefit are those most likely to be supported.
 		 	Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation and Frequency
 		 	State Street Global Advisors believes executive compensation plays a critical role in aligning executives’ interest with shareholders’, attracting, retaining and incentivizing key talent, and ensuring positive correlation between the performance achieved by management and the benefits derived by shareholders. We support management proposals on executive compensation where there is a strong relationship between executive pay and performance over a five-year period. We seek adequate disclosure of various compensation elements, absolute and relative pay levels, peer selection and benchmarking, the mix of long-term and short-term incentives, alignment of pay structures with shareholder interests as well as with corporate strategy, and performance. Further shareholders should have the opportunity to assess whether pay structures and levels are aligned with business performance on an annual basis.
 

B-58


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

In Canada, where advisory votes on executive compensation are not commonplace, we will rely primarily upon engagement to evaluate compensation plans.

 		 	Employee Equity Award Plans
 		 	We consider numerous criteria when examining equity award proposals. Generally we do not vote against plans for lack of performance or vesting criteria. Rather the main criteria that will result in a vote against an equity award plan are:
 		 	Excessive voting power dilution To assess the dilutive effect, we divide the number of shares required to fully fund the proposed plan, the number of authorized but unissued shares and the issued but unexercised shares by the fully diluted share count. We review that number in light of certain factors, such as the industry of the issuer.
 		 	Historical option grants Excessive historical option grants over the past three years. Plans that provide for historical grant patterns of greater than five to eight percent are generally not supported.
 		 	Repricing We will vote against any plan where repricing is expressly permitted. If a company has a history of repricing underwater options, the plan will not be supported.
 		 	Other criteria include the following:
 		 	
•   Number of participants or eligible employees

 		 	
•   The variety of awards possible

 		 	
•   The period of time covered by the plan

 		 	There are numerous factors that we view as negative. If combined they may result in a vote against a proposal. Factors include:
 		 	
•   Grants to individuals or very small groups of participants

 		 	
•   “Gun-jumping” grants which anticipate shareholder approval of a plan or amendment

 		 	
•   The power of the board to exchange “underwater” options without shareholder approval. This pertains to the ability of a company to reprice options, not the actual act of repricing described above

 		 	
•   Below market rate loans to officers to exercise their options

 		 	
•   The ability to grant options at less than fair market value;

 		 	
•   Acceleration of vesting automatically upon a change in control

 		 	
•   Excessive compensation (i.e. compensation plans which we deem to be overly dilutive)

 

B-59


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
 

 

Share Repurchases If a company makes a clear connection between a share repurchase program and its intent to offset dilution created from option plans and the company fully discloses the amount of shares being repurchased, the voting dilution calculation may be adjusted to account for the impact of the buy back.

 		 	Companies will not have any such repurchase plan factored into the dilution calculation if they do not (i) clearly state the intentions of any proposed share buy-back plan, (ii) disclose a definitive number of the shares to be bought back, (iii) specify the range of premium/discount to market price at which a company can repurchase shares, and (iv) disclose the time frame during which the shares will be bought back.
 		 	162(m) Plan Amendments If a plan would not normally meet our criteria described above, but was primarily amended to add specific performance criteria to be used with awards that were designed to qualify for performance-based exception from the tax deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, then we will support the proposal to amend the plan.
 		 	Employee Stock Option Plans
 		 	We generally vote for stock purchase plans with an exercise price of not less than 85% of fair market value. However, we take market practice into consideration.
 		 	Compensation-Related Items
 		 	We generally support the following proposals:
 		 	
•   Expansions to reporting of financial or compensation-related information within reason

 

•   Proposals requiring the disclosure of executive retirement benefits if the issuer does not have an independent compensation committee

 		 	We generally vote against the following proposal:
 

 		 	
•   Retirement bonuses for non-executive directors and auditors

 

Miscellaneous/ Routine Items	 		 	We generally support the following miscellaneous/routine governance items:
 		 	
•   Reimbursement of all appropriate proxy solicitation expenses associated with the election when voting in conjunction with support of a dissident slate

 		 	
•   Opting-out of business combination provision

 		 	
•   Proposals that remove restrictions on the right of shareholders to act independently of management

 		 	
•   Liquidation of the company if the company will file for bankruptcy if the proposal is not approved

 		 	
•   Shareholder proposals to put option repricings to a shareholder vote

 

B-60


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 		 	
•   General updating of, or corrective amendments to, charter and bylaws not otherwise specifically addressed herein, unless such amendments would reasonably be expected to diminish shareholder rights (e.g. extension of directors’ term limits, amending shareholder vote requirement to amend the charter documents, insufficient information provided as to the reason behind the amendment)

 		 	
•   Change in corporation name

 		 	
•   Mandates that amendments to bylaws or charters have shareholder approval

 		 	
•   Management proposals to change the date, time, and/or location of the annual meeting unless the proposed change is unreasonable

 		 	
•   Repeals, prohibitions or adoption of anti-greenmail provisions

 		 	
•   Management proposals to implement a reverse stock split when the number of authorized shares will be proportionately reduced and proposals to implement a reverse stock split to avoid delisting

 		 	
•   Exclusive forum provisions

 		 	State Street Global Advisors generally does not support the following miscellaneous/ routine governance items:
 		 	
•   Proposals requesting companies to adopt full tenure holding periods for their executives

 		 	
•   Reincorporation to a location that we believe has more negative attributes than its current location of incorporation

 		 	
•   Shareholder proposals to change the date, time, and/or location of the annual meeting unless the current scheduling or location is unreasonable

 		 	
•   Proposals to approve other business when it appears as a voting item

 		 	
•   Proposals giving the board exclusive authority to amend the bylaws

 

 		 	
•   Proposals to reduce quorum requirements for shareholder meetings below a majority of the shares outstanding unless there are compelling reasons to support the proposal

 

Environmental and Social Issues	 		 	As a fiduciary, State Street Global Advisors takes a comprehensive approach to engaging with our portfolio companies about material environmental and social (sustainability) issues. We use our voice and our vote through engagement, proxy voting, and thought leadership in order to communicate with issuers and educate market participants about our perspective on important sustainability topics. Our Asset Stewardship program prioritization process allows us to proactively identify companies for engagement and voting in order to mitigate sustainability risks in our portfolio. Through engagement, we address a broad range of topics that align with our thematic priorities and build long-term relationships with issuers. When voting, we fundamentally consider whether the adoption of a shareholder proposal addressing a material sustainability issue would promote long-term shareholder value in the context of the company’s existing practices and disclosures as well as existing market practice.
 

B-61


LOGO	 		 		  	
 

 

 		 	
 

 

For more information on our approach to environmental and social issues, please see our Global Proxy Voting and Engagement Guidelines for Environmental and Social Issues available at ssga.com/about-us/asset-stewardship.html.

 

More Information	 		 	Any client who wishes to receive information on how its proxies were voted should contact its State Street Global Advisors relationship manager.
 

B-62
